# Chapter 17: The Children of Ash

---

The chittering grew louder, closer, echoing unnervingly in the subterranean confines of Pinnacle Genetics. It was accompanied by a wet, dragging sound, as if something heavy and slick was being pulled across the grimy floor. Felix swore under his breath, his pulse rifle’s beam cutting a swathe through the darkness of the corridor leading to the vault.

“Mileo, how fast can you download whatever’s on that ‘Yggdrasil’ cylinder?” Kaia snapped, her own weapon up, her senses straining to pinpoint the source of the approaching menace.

*“Initiating prioritized data extraction from the ‘Project: Yggdrasil’ cylinder now, Kaia,”* Mileo’s voice was tight with effort. *“The connection is tenuous. Full decryption and download will take several minutes. The other cylinders… significantly longer.”*

“We don’t have several minutes!” Felix hissed. “Contact! Multiple hostiles, coming fast!”

From the gloom, figures emerged. They were vaguely humanoid in shape but moved with a disturbing, insectile scuttling. Their skin was a pale, almost translucent grey, like the ash that choked the district, and glistened wetly. They had no visible eyes, only smooth, scarred-over patches of skin where eyes should have been, but their heads, too large for their emaciated bodies, twitched and swiveled, long, needle-like teeth chattering in oversized jaws. Claws, more like chitinous hooks, scraped against the floor as they advanced.

“What in the blighted hells are those things?” Kaia breathed, a wave of revulsion washing over her. They were silent save for the chittering and the drag of their limbs.

*“Biological signatures are… heavily mutated,”* Mileo reported, his voice strained by the ongoing download attempt. *“Traces of human DNA, but significantly altered. Adapted for subterranean, low-light, toxic environments. Likely escaped or discarded subjects from this facility’s undocumented experiments. The ‘Biohazard Protocol Gamma’ may have been… insufficient.”*

“Children of Ash,” Felix muttered, opening fire. Pulse bolts slammed into the lead creature. It shrieked, a high-pitched, grating sound that echoed Kaia’s earlier description of tearing metal, and stumbled, but didn’t go down. Dark, viscous fluid oozed from the wounds, but it kept coming, its hooked claws reaching.

“They’re tough!” Kaia yelled, adding her fire. Another creature, moving with surprising speed, darted along the ceiling like a grotesque lizard and tried to drop on Felix. He cursed, blasting it at point-blank range. It exploded in a shower of ichor and pale flesh.

More were emerging from the darkness, a seemingly endless stream of them pouring out of the flooded side corridors and ventilation shafts. They weren’t just attacking; they were trying to surround the vault.

“Mileo, status!” Kaia shouted, reloading as Felix covered her. The narrow confines of the vault entrance were both a choke point and a trap.

*“Yggdrasil data download at… thirty percent. Integrity is questionable due to encrypted countermeasures. I am attempting to bypass… The other cylinders are untouched.”*

“Forget the others! Just get Yggdrasil!” Kaia ordered. She grabbed the physical cylinder marked "Project: Yggdrasil" from its slot. It was surprisingly heavy, cool to the touch. “If the download fails, we’re taking the hard copy!”

A clawed hand snaked around the edge of the vault door, trying to find purchase. Felix stomped on it with a reinforced boot, eliciting another piercing shriek. “They’re trying to get in! How many of these damn things are there?”

“Too many to fight our way out if they box us in here,” Kaia assessed grimly. The chittering was deafening now, coming from all directions. “Mileo, can you seal this vault door from your end once we’re out?”

*“The external mechanisms are… likely compromised. But I can attempt to overload the magnetic lock once it’s closed. It might buy you a few seconds.”*

“It’ll have to do!” Kaia glanced at the Yggdrasil cylinder in her hand. “Felix, on my mark, we fall back to the crawler. We create a breach, toss a couple of frags to cover our retreat. We can’t hold this.”

Felix nodded, his face grim, his rifle spitting energy. “Sounds like a party. Just say when.”

*“Download at sixty percent… seventy… Data corruption detected… attempting to stabilize… Eighty percent!”* Mileo’s voice was a frantic stream. *“I have a significant fragment, Kaia! But it’s heavily damaged!”*

“That’s enough! We’re going!” Kaia yelled. “Now, Felix!”

Felix unleashed a sustained barrage, forcing the closest creatures back momentarily. Kaia darted out of the vault, the Yggdrasil cylinder clutched tight. Felix followed, already priming two fragmentation grenades.

“Close it, Mileo!” Kaia screamed, slamming the heavy vault door shut. The magnetic lock thudded, hopefully engaging.

Felix tossed the grenades down the corridor towards the main swarm of chittering horrors. “Fire in the hole! Real loud noise coming!”

The explosions rocked the subterranean level, the shockwave momentarily sucking the air from their lungs. Shrieks of pain and rage echoed from the smoke and dust-filled corridor.

“Move!”

They didn’t wait to see the aftermath, sprinting back the way they came, through the decaying labs and flooded passages. The sounds of pursuit were close behind – the enraged chittering, the scrabbling of claws. The grenades had bought them moments, nothing more.

One of the Ash Children, faster and more agile than the others, leaped from a darkened alcove, landing on Felix’s back, its teeth snapping inches from his helmet. Kaia spun, firing a point-blank burst that tore the creature apart, showering Felix in its foul fluids.

“Thanks!” he grunted, shoving the remains off him. “These things are bloody persistent!”

They reached the breached loading bay, the dim, ash-filtered light from outside a welcome sight. The scout crawler was where they’d left it.

As they scrambled aboard, more Ash Children poured from the ramp, their pale forms stark against the gloom.

“Drive!” Kaia yelled, already powering up the crawler’s external pulse cannons.

Felix slammed the crawler into reverse, tires spinning on the slick, ash-covered ground. Kaia unleashed a torrent of fire from the cannons, cutting down the first wave of pursuers, giving them the precious seconds needed to turn the vehicle and accelerate away from Pinnacle Genetics.

They burst out of the alleyway and into the ghostly streets of the Ashfall District, leaving behind the chittering horde and the violated secrets of the subterranean lab. The Yggdrasil cylinder lay on the seat between them, a cold, silent enigma. Mileo’s fragmented download was their only other prize from that toxic hellhole.

“Well,” Felix said, his breathing still ragged as he navigated the treacherous, ash-clogged streets. “That was… memorable. Think anything useful is on that glorified paperweight or in Mileo’s brain-bits?”

Kaia looked at the cylinder, then out at the swirling grey ash that seemed to want to reclaim everything. “I don’t know, Felix. But whatever Project: Yggdrasil was, it was important enough to guard with bio-engineered nightmares. And the entity is looking for a bloodline connected to this… madness.”

They had a piece of the puzzle. But the picture it was forming was darker and more terrifying than she could have imagined.

---
